# DMS THESIS TEMPLATE

## Requirements

It is assumed that you have installed 

 1. the latest version of R and Rstudio
 2. the latest version of the R package `tinytex`. Otherwise install it using the following R lines.
 
  ```r
  install.packages("tinytex")
  tinytex::install_tinytex()
  ```

## Usage

  1. Clone/download the repository.
  2. Click `test_thesis_template.Rproj` redirecting you to your RStudio IDE.
  3. On the Files Pane, click the `index.Rmd` file.
  4. Build the book to preview the pdf by pressing `Cntrl + Shift + B` in Windows or `Command + Shift + B` for Mac.

## Modifying the files

 1. Edit/Add Rmd files corresponding to the chapters you want to modify.
 2. It is recommended that all custom external files (not generated by R during compilation of the pdf) should be save according to category folders in the folder `source`.
 3. If you want to add a new chapter, create a new `.Rmd` file with naming format `xx-name.Rmd` were `xx` denotes the position in the document while `name` denotes one-word name of the file in lowercase.
 4. If you other specific questions/suggestions just message me through <rey.cuenca@g.msuiit.edu.ph>.

## Tips

  1. (Highly-recommended) In the `index.Rmd` file, it is preferred that you comment out (using `#`) the `logo` parameter in the YAML header to render the pdf file much faster. You can uncomment this later once you are finally done.
  2. For the current update of this template, it is recommended that you use RStudio's Viewer when previewing the compiled pdf output. You can do this by going to `Tools > Global Options > Sweave > PDF Preview` and choose `RStudio Viewer` in the options of `Preview PDF after complie using`.


## Copyright Notice

Please do not use the institute's logo outside of what it is originally intended for this repo.
